is that the main teacher in the Hebrew class was Reverend Gray.
He's probably come up in your talks.
And he, in fact, taught my uncle.
He went to Cheder in the 1920s.
So Reverend Gray was there from a young man.
But the interesting thing with Reverend Gray, I've again discovered,
is that he was a pupil in Israel, or in Palestine in those days.
A man called Rabbi Cook was the chief rabbi of Palestine.
But also, again, he was a very remarkable man.
He's again in Jewish history.
Rav Cook is, you know, the tops.
And the thing about him is, obviously, he was a very, very religious fellow.
But he realized that not all Jews were religious.
And he encouraged secular Jews to come to Palestine to live.
And he made them welcome.
He was an all-inclusive, very, you know, ultra-religious man, but all-inclusive.
He realized that secular Jews were Jews, not just, you know, they weren't heathens.
So, and Reverend Gray was very much like that.
And I remember on one occasion, my uncle was dying.
Now, my uncle, who was my mother's brother, he married a non-Jewish lady.
But his mother was such a matriarch that they were scared to tell her.
And she never knew that he'd married a non-Jewish lady.
She never, ever was told.
He was always, as far as she's concerned,
Abby is going to get married one day.
But she never knew.
So anyway, what happened is, when my uncle was dying in hospital,
I went to see him, and Reverend Gray was with him.
And when I met Reverend Gray in the synagogue on a Saturday,
I said, oh, thank you very much for going to see my uncle,
thinking that he would never go and see him because he'd married a non-Jew.
And he said, why shouldn't I go and see him?
They are all my children.
So he was a good guy.
You've probably heard a lot about Reverend Gray.